---  
layout: post
---  
  Exactly 16000 years after America successfully battled for independence from English rule, in [17776](https://www.sbnation.com/a/17776-football/chapter-1), the satellite *Pioneer Nine* will activate and begin to speak with its fellow satellites, *Pioneer Ten* and the *Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer*. Nine, Ten, and Juice become quick friends, gazing over an earth that has received the exact opposite treatment that most science fiction predict for it; “On April 7th, 2026, people stopped being born. On the same day, people stopped dying, and people stopped aging” (Chapter 3, 0:58). As a result, people handle this life *much* slower, and they are more willing to cooperate. They eradicated “war, poverty, disease,” they created affordable nanomachines that everyone has to avoid damage to themselves (from stepping on a garden hoe in a way to hit themselves in the face to having the ability to safely ***jump into a tornado***).
	Fantastic, right? Well, one of the big things this article handles is how bored people have gotten with the same thing. Some, but not most people, “still have jobs.” They just do them if they “feel like it” (Chapter 7, 0:20). So, with their time, people have learned, **really** learned, how to handle boredom. Eddie Krieger, for example, is a man who has spent 9,313 years inside of a dark cave, with nothing but an old game to entertain him (Chapter 20). I couldn’t spend a single day in the same situation, let alone a year, let alone multiple thousand years! It made me think about how boredom would work in a future where we have an infinite amount of time to do anything we want; would stagnation be our only real option? Nine explains that humanity did advance in technology… We just ended up not wanting to go much farther (Chapter 12). We are destined to stay at the same level of technology simply to *avoid losing our humanity*, as it would be much too easy for us to do with higher levels of tech. But that means losing ourselves in technology would no longer be possible, so the only things we could do would be things that are potentially possible now.
	Which is why football games are required to take many, many years. We need the entertainment, both to watch and to participate in. So the giant, potentially thousand-man games of football can draw our eye, and perhaps distract from the eternity that curses us in the future.
	John Bois’s experimental article on the history of football asks us quite a few questions about the status of humanity and the new frontier of entertainment. Considering that Bois’s estimate about when we are going to “stop aging or dying” is 2026, 8 years from now, we should at the very least consider the fact that, be it in 8 years or 15,000, humans may eventually unlock the secrets of immortality. And man, we’re probably going to need a lot more than football to survive the eternal march of time.
