---
layout: post
---
The week of September 24th provided plenty of works concerning the memory portion of the human mind in the past, present, and future. An oft overlooked element of sci-fi, the generation of new devices that keep track of our lives is an essential part of what technology can offer us.  

In the Sci-Fi novel [*Speak* by Louisa Hall](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00N0WUPKU/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1), Hall explains to us that these bots attained ‘sentience’ by taking the voices from those who made them. During a conversation with one of these bots, a young girl named Gaby asks ‘“So you’re not really a person, you’re a collection of voices.” with the MARY3 AI responding, ‘“Yes. But couldn’t you say that’s always the case?” (44). MARY3 brings up an interesting point; in the end, we humans are just what we are able to remember, what *voices* we listen to. That’s why there are “liberal” and “conservative” channels; so we can continue listening to the voices that we love to listen to, and keep repeating words that we love having repeated to us.  

On a different but related channel, the Sci-Fi short story “The Truth of Fact, the Truth of Feeling” by Ted Chiang centralizes along the technology “Remem”, a device that records videos of someone’s entire life and then searches through these videos to locate the exact memory that the user needs (2). In this story, the Narrator is tasked to talk down the importance of Remem, but by the end of the story, uses it to recall an argument he had with his daughter, where his daughter told him that “You’re the reason [my mother and your wife] left! You drove her away! You can leave too, for all I care. I sure as hell would be better off without you.” (10). Generally, a terrible thing to say to your father, but using Remem, our narrator learns that it was not his daughter who said that; it was him (20). By using Remem, the narrator learns that he has altered his memories to better himself, which is something we all do to block out terrible thoughts. But, because of that, he destroyed his relationship with his daughter. Would perfect memory be only negative? Of course not; the ability to forget is important. However, being able to go back and remember something perfectly, and being able to do that for any point in our lives, instead of what we decide to write down, is something to consider.  

Forgetting is an essential part of my life, and is a reason I need to write stuff down on a device I use often. I *need* the reminders if I am to do anything relating to memory, but… What if nobody could forget anything? This is a theme in Gary Goshgarian’s book, [*Gray Matter*](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B003C2SPGO/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1), specifically with the character Brendan, who feels cursed with memory. Forgetting is far from a bad thing, but will it be eliminated in the future? And will we miss it?
