For this week, I want to focus on the [*UndocuDreamers: Public Writing and the Digital Turn](https://www.boundary2.org/2018/08/perez/) article we looked at. Professor Perez seems to have a lot of trouble deciding whether or not her students’ blogposts should be “password protected” to evade the potentially dangerous internet trolls that lurk around every corner. I want to look a little more into that.  

So, the concept of the project was to allow undocumented immigrants to “express their thoughts on their positions, on their lives, in public.” This is doubly important since “public humiliation” and threats can be assigned to otherwise wholesome tweets about the issue.  

Perez took an interesting choice, then, when she decided to change the media from *Twitter* to online, public blogposts that others could see, but I suppose not as many people peruse the internet for undocumented immigrants’ expressions of frustration about the system when a simple search on *Twitter* can pull up all of the news you might want.  

So when people started actually looking at the blogs, and threats of reporting the students began to poke their heads up, Perez eventually threw in the towel and concealed the blogs from public view, unwilling to accept the responsibility should one be caught doing “work [she] had assigned,” “on her domain.”  

I can’t be certain, but I feel like she might have stepped on her own tail here. Her students “felt no risk” or were “willing to take the risk” in order to showcase their movement of undocumented immigrants talking about their lives. By shielding them from the public, they are kind of just talking about their problems to people who have at least similar experiences. By making them public, however, those who are on the fence about the issues raised by and about undocumented citizens might be swayed to a sympathetic angle.  

Alternatively, it could be easily argued that the undocumented students won't do much good out of the country, but even creating anonymity through less information about the students, such as pseudonyms and closed-off information, might make it harder for internet trolls to find information about them, while still allowing the students to divulge their lives to an audience interested in reading about them. If somehow the pseudonyms stay strong, and there isn’t some sort of conservative hacker, this would even allow them to spread their story to an otherwise hostile audience without too much repercussion.   

I don’t think Professor Perez made the wrong choice in “protecting” her students, but I hope in the future she will keep this project alive, either through more rigorous protections for Undocumented students protecting them, or through anonymity allowing students privacy in a public setting.
