For one day, September 11th, I chose to not use any web-based devices, including phones, computers, or anything of the like. Though I am unsure if I was completely successful, my habits were changed and I itched for the touch of the computer that I devote myself to.  
I chose the 1922 assignment, as it would be immensely easy for me to play an offline video game for my freetime, which would be an option in the 1992 version. I could play *Super Mario Brothers* for hours.  
I would like to begin by thanking Ryan Cordell for opening my eyes to this path. My reliance on computers and tech has blinded me, and I was happy for a chance to see what I could do with my own willpower and a couple of books. I was honestly quite surprised… I handled that day *much* better than I expected. Sure, I had the aid of the school day, but that wasn’t very helpful, considering I take notes on my laptop for ease of reading and returning. So, when Tuesday the 11th came, I had to make sure I was prepared.  
I started by getting my old alarm clock and a very old watch my dad used to have. I had to remember how the hell it worked, since it was one of the ones that I could have from 1922. Analog clocks had not escaped my cluttered mind, fortunately, so I was able to set an alarm for 9 o’clock.   
Not that I needed it! Anxiety woke me up at 8, and kept me up. I was terrified of this assignment; I would be so bored all day! Luckily for me, my family planned on a family dinner, and my mother called to confirm that I would be able to come how. She’d pick me up in her trolley at the end of the day. I was excited, but a little scared. I usually had my phone at family gatherings, and used that as an escape to just spend time alone. I would have to… *talk with my family*. More horrifying than you can imagine.  
One sad part of the day was that I would not be able to communicate with my group. The people I haphazardly call my friends live all over the country; four in middle America, one in New York, and four in Ireland. As they lived so far away, and I didn’t know their phone numbers, I would have to be without a friend group for the day. Thank goodness for social anxiety.  
I think this is the biggest drawback I faced today. Entertainment and notetaking is a lovely part of technology, two things that I tend to use often, but my relationship with my group transcends those small advantages. Thanks to the internet and websites, I’ve made a group of 10 friends that I would never know existed back in 1922, and they’re the main reason I’ve done so well at anything, really. Which is kinda funny, on reflection…   
One of the big problems people say about technology is that it pulls us farther apart, that we have a lot more trouble handling social situation because of them. But… I have a lot of trouble talking with people face-to-face, or making friends. It’s so much easier for me to talk with my group online than with people in reality, which would have been impossible in 1992. I can’t say that devices are helping our socialization, because that is untrue, but I also can’t say it is specifically harming our ability to socialize, as that would be a grave misinterpretation of my relationship with these far-apart men and women.  
After forlornly looking at the object I would normally communicate with my support group through, a huge problem came to me suddenly and in a flash; I had ***NO*** sense of direction. None. I have been using GPS to know where to go since I was just starting to drive, and even used it to get to brand new classes. Brand new classes like my new Coop course. I wandered blindly, and even had to ask someone for directions, for about 15 minutes before locating the building within which my coop preparation was occuring.  
A note on notetaking; as said above, I use my laptop for notes. I don’t do this so I can chat with that friend group, or at least that’s not the only reason. The reason is my handwriting is not good. Almost unreadable. I much prefer the smooth Arial or Times New Roman to Chickenscratch 3D, so the notes I took for each of these classes made me groan.  
On the bright side, my first Coop prep class went well. My resumé was printed days previously, due to the requirement of a computer to print it, and I was able to take notes inside of a binder. With some luck, I’ll be able to read them whenever I require it.  
So then came lunchtime. After hastily eating my meal in the dining hall, I retired to my room. Or, at least tried to. My card was unable to access the swiping area that opens the door to my hallway. Normally, I’d be able to use an app to enter it, but here I had to grit my teeth, go back in the elevator, ride one more floor up, enter the hallway from *that* area, and then move downstairs. From there, I was able to access my room.  
 Free time was not a problem; I had a pile of books waiting to be read for class. I devoured half of *Fahrenheit 451* in this time.  
My reading habits were forced to change here. Normally, I’d write the page number and what I wanted from that page number on a computer screen. I find that much easier to organize than sticky notes, since I really like talking about almost all of a book. Looking back into books… Well… Let’s just say I am not amazing at keeping track of what sticky notes belong where, and it often becomes a skimming-through pages in order to find what sticky note points to what.  
But I pressed on, destroying *Fahrenheit 451*’s first half with ideas of my own, since it was a rental and I refused to write in the margins. Then came time for my Science Fiction course, armed with a notebook to write down the entire history of the Science Fiction genre. Once again, I hope I will not need those in the future, as it is unlikely that I’ll be able to analyze my notes in a convincing manner.  
My Rapid Idea Prototyping class came next. A game design course, it usually asked me to use a device, such as a cell phone or a laptop, in order to more easily interact with the outside world. My teacher, Professor Liberty, was more than fine with giving me a quick pass to take my No Digital Day. I was able to interact with the class fairly well, though **everyone** had their devices out. I tried as hard as possible to not look at any screens, but considering every single person had their screens out, it is impossible to admit to not glancing occasionally.  
This is something that stuck out to me. I was shocked at how many of my peers, family, strangers, etc. used their devices almost constantly. I came early to my RIP class, and there was dead silence, despite 10 human beings with relatively intelligent minds occupying the room. I forced conversation to occur to keep from growing bored, which is something I *never* have to do. I hate starting conversations, but I had to there.  
This goes in a perpendicular direction from the social conversation that originates from my support group. Here, devices did what many fear devices would do; in a deeply academic society, a group of 10 people can refuse to talk to one another, instead preferring to engage only in what the screen calls them to do.   
I didn’t feel superior in this instance; just mortified. The call of the screen mystifies us in almost all situations, from walking down the street (painfully slowly, like almost getting hit by a car slowly) to sitting around a table, as was occurring here. In almost all of these situations, we are completely walled off to the world, so totally embraced by a society within these devices that we are blind to the other world.  
Mind you, once again, this isn’t all negative. The society that is my long-distance friends would never exist if not for this interior world, but it has surely injured our ability to speak aloud to each other, and consider it fun. I think we find it tiring. Conversations don’t provide the immediate enjoyment that we normally experience from scrolling through memes or (in the case of one or two kids in the room) watching a video. We’d just prefer to look at those.  
This is a technology that we could use to talk with people around the world and form relationships, or to reward our basic instinct to get immediate pleasure. Many of us choose pleasure.  
Coming back from the event, I called my mother a total of 4 times to confirm, re-confirm, reschedule, and reschedule the pickup time for me to go home and eat family dinner. A simple text message would have sufficed, but that is not of this time. In the meantime, between 5:30 and 6:30, I engorged myself on the rest of *Fahrenheit 451*, a book which now resembles a peacock, and then began the journey with my mother.   
“Jason,” she began, “We need to get your sister’s car, so you’ll drive this one, okay?”  
Of course. My sister purchased a new car, and now I was responsible for driving my mother’s while she took the new car. There was a problem, however; I still didn’t know how to get from the car store to my home in Weymouth without my GPS. I told my mother this, but she didn’t care. “Just follow the road signs.” Road signs? Oh gods! I was petrified, but I made it back home. Luckily, it was mostly a straight shot. I still got home 10 minutes after my mother, a much more experienced driver, did. The road signs were a very important key to my success, and I don’t remember the last time I used them to orient myself, either on or off the highway.  
After that terrifying moment, I politely asked my mother to ensure my family was not watching television. My father refused to miss the big tennis match on that night, so I was sent to the other room to speak with my family, listening to the ‘radio.’ If I failed my experiment, it was likely here, as my family is so television and device centric, I was unable to persuade them to stop watching TV for two hours.  
After the game, we played a board game, an event that happens about once a year. We played a pretty ironic game, *The Awesome Game of Memes*. I was pretty good at it, since it involves matching a funny picture to a caption. I couldn’t even escape the throws of the internet while playing a board game.  
We ate dinner at this time, with plenty of awkward pauses that I’d never noticed before. Conversation slows down a lot when people look at their phones, and usually I’m one of the culprits.   
My father was kind enough to give me a ride home, his car radio playing the news by my request. We went into Boston without a care.  
I got home at around 9 o’clock. Once again, I cracked open a book, this time a science fiction novel called *Feed*. I read it, and riddled it with notes, until my alarm clock told me it was midnight. I was nervous about something, and here’s where I might have also failed the assignment. I spent 24 hours (if you include the night I slept beforehand) without willingly viewing a screen, but that night I went to my computer at 12:06 am and emailed Professor Cordell about an assignment I was not able to access on Monday, the 10th. I could not physically wait the additional 8 hours, I told myself. Though I went to bed directly afterwards, I felt terrible; I could not complete one sleep-to-sleep cycle without getting to a computer, even if it was just to email. I did, however, spend 16 hours without willingly gazing upon a screen, so in a way, I feel as if I did well. I could have just napped all day.  
I really enjoyed this assignment, but with how my classes are reliant on digital media to provide class materials and submit homework through, I find myself reluctant to try again. Maybe during the summer, if I was able to make plans with friends. That would also mean I wouldn’t have to destroy my books with post-it notes, as I believe that my overuse of notes is more of a fearful response than an actually legitimate study tool. I’d probably not want to try it for more than 2 or 3 days, as my support group is all online, and I would get sad without them. I have felt the life lived by so few Americans, at least partially, and if I can say so myself, I do not envy them.  
